having had a look at the role of the Project Explorer window.
In this video,
we'll have a look at some of the other available windows in the visual basic editor.
Let's go into the Exercises folder,
an intersection to and let's once more at it,
the template that we used in the last video.
So just right click and choose open and then developer and visual basic to enter the visual
basic editor.
And this time,
let's start with a clean slate.
Let's just close down every single window.
So we've established that the Project Explorer is usually the starting point.
So we bring that up and we condense.
See all of the objects,
which are available for attaching code to each of the documents that you currently call
open.
The next type of window that you probably will encounter is a code window,
and there are a number of ways of opening code windows.
The simplest is to double click on one of these objects,
and that brings up the code window.
In the case of a form double,
click in simply opens the form,
so to get to the code in one hit,
you can right click and choose view code.
And,
of course,
in the view menu,
you also have code.
The short cut.
As you can see there is F seven.
Each code window that you open doesn't close any of the existing code windows.
They simply accumulate on the right here.
If we look at the bottom of the window menu,
all of the currently available code windows could be accessed,
and you may well have come across the short cut for switching windows in other programs.
It's controlled and tab,
so you can see that as I press,
control and tab,
the appropriate object correspondent of the currently active window is also highlighted.
We'll obviously be doing a lot of work in the code window,
so you'll become very used to using it during this course moving down the View menu.
The next window we have is the object browser,
and this is a built in reference facility,
which enables you to check the syntax for all the VB,
a code that you may be thinking of writing.
The code is divided into different libraries.
So,
for example,
if you're doing something which relates to VB A itself rather than a particular program,
within the Microsoft Office Suite U two's Vehbi eh?
So here you'll find syntax,
which is common on which could be used when,
right in programs using Vehbi eh?
In Microsoft Word or Excel or Power Point.
So,
for example,
when we're dealing with the document object will discuss the file system object.
And this is where you would come if you wanted to check the syntax to see,
for example,
how to change the current directory past the command that does it.
Current directory.
C U R D I r herder When you want to work with word and of course,
you look in the word library,
and here you'll see all of the objects which relate to Microsoft Word.
So,
for example,
if you're working with a document object,
you can scroll down and check the available syntax.
So if you want to say the document,
you will go down.
Of course,
to say that,
as will save us to,
is it now is on here.
You'll get an idea of all of this in tax.
We'll talk more about the object browser in Section six,
the word object model.
You'll notice that the Object browser opens in the same areas,
the code windows and indeed it's displayed at the bottom of the window menu,
and you can switch to and from it when it's open,
using control in time.
The next section in the View menu relates to debug in,
so we have immediate locals.
Watch and call.
Stack will discuss these windows in detail in Section eight,
debug in and error handling.
For the moment,
I just want to mention that the immediate window is a bit more versatile,
as well as its role in debug in which will come to later.
It can also be used to execute a single line of code.
This makes it a very useful tool,
both for very fine or check in syntax,
and also just for carrying out a single action use in code.
I'll give you a very simple example.
Let's go back to Microsoft Word.
Just using this icon here or old 11 and then in the file or office button.
Let's choose options or word options on in the user name section.
You'll see I've got my name Grant Gamble.
As a user,
I have the ability to change this as well.
Let's see what it is so it's a property of the application object,
the application object being,
of course,
Microsoft Word,
which is read,
write.
And this is exactly how it works in code.
So in the immediate window,
if I want to read that property,
I would use a question mark and then application docks and no prizes for guessing it's
going to be using name when I press enter,
it shows me the user name because it's a read write property.
I can also change it.
So to do that,
I delete the question Mark I simply a sign a string because obviously this is a string
parameter.
I assign a string to it because it's a string.
It has to go in quotes.
So let's say just grant.
When I press enter,
that line is then executed.
So if I go back into word options,
you'll see the change has been made programmatically.
Let's just put it back to what it waas so as well as its role in debug in which will come
to later.
Just remember that that facility exists.
You can just execute a line of code to quickly check and set in,
or to check a parameter and it very often saves you having to create a macro for that
purpose or to use the recorder as we've done before.
Then we have the project explore,
which we've seen and the properties window.
So this basically allows you to choose to change attributes of the selected object.
So if we click on this document,
we have a lot of feedback basically relating to the settings off this current document.
But it's mainly with user forms that you'll be used in properties.
So whatever control I click on,
I can see a number of properties relating to that control like a neither view them as an
alphabetical list.
Or I can switch across to the categorized tab where the various attributes are grouped
under headings,
and you have the ability here to collapse the headings,
which makes it much easier to sort of navigate and find the attribute that you're looking
for as well as this.
With years of forms,
you can choose the control from this drop down as well as obviously clicking under control
on the use of warm itself,
and it just switches across.
So if I wanted to change the name of my label for example,
the reason that the name hasn't been changed is because it's not going to be manipulated
programmatically so it's name is irrelevant.
But if it were to be given the name,
it would probably begin with L.
B L for clarity,
using a three letter prefix to indicate that it's a label Andi name because that's what it
relates to with models and class modules.
The only thing that you really change is the name of the module.
So let's say that this is going to be called main.
We then got a couple of options,
which relates specifically to use the form.
So if I highlight the user form,
they become available.
On one is toolbox,
which we saw briefly,
which allows you to act controls to the form.
And then there's tab order.
And that's the order in which elements are highlighted as the user presses the tab key when
the form is visible on this form.
Because the cancel button was created after the continue button,
it's last in the tab order.
So to prove that if we run the form and I just press the tab key,
you'll see it goes throb the textbooks to continue and then to counsel,
which is not a big deal,
but to make things neat and tidy.
If we bring up tab order,
and if I simply click on Bt and cancel and move up,
it's now in a more logical left to right top to bottom order.
So when we run from this tax books,
we go the council and then tap again takes us to continue.
So that's a look at the various windows.
And as I said,
we will cover the debugging windows when we come to the debug in section in detail.
Then we've got four tool buzz the standard tour bars,
the one which is currently visible.
And if you're a word user who has been using one for some time,
then these tool bars will be very familiar from previous versions of the Microsoft Office
suite.
So we've got things like obviously,
cut copy paste on do,
um,
play to run code on indeed to run a years of four.
And then we've got some icons here for making the some of the windows visible so they
duplicate the functions that we've seen in the View menu.
The Edit in Toolbar has options,
which refer specifically to code,
so soon as I switched to a code window,
then they will become visible.
I will discuss these options,
will use them as we go through the course and we start type in code,
will discuss them as we need them will discuss the tools on the debugging tool.
But when we come to the debug in section and the final toolbar is for user forms,
so I'll just switch back to the user form and it's got a few options relating to
structuring and formatting your controls.
So,
for example,
here I've got the ability.
If I wanted to group these together or to change the alignment,
so if they weren't a line,
I can tow line the bottom edges,
and I could make them the same with so whichever one I selected first,
I can't remember,
but that will become the basis of the common with,
and then when I choose that they will become that with.
So based on the results,
we can assume that I dragged from right to left when I selected it,
and the continue button was selected first,
and they both the same with as Theory Journal with on the continued up Let's just don't do
so.
Very straightforward.
So that's a quick look at the windows and tool bars that you have available.
I haven't looked at these interface elements in the next video will move on to look at
write in code code Windows Air used to create and edit code inside modules.
News of forms that this document object and class modules,
in addition to its role in debug in the immediate window,
could be used to execute a line of the V A code.
The Object browser is a built in reference,
which details this intact structure of the B A on the word object model.
The properties window is most frequently used when a sign in attributes to controls on a
news a form.
There are four tool bars available in the visual basic editor debug,
edit standard and use of forms